P Genesis

1:1  In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.

1:2  And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.

1:3  And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

1:4  And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.

1:5  And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day.

1:6  And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.

1:7  And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so.

1:8  And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.

1:9  And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

1:10  And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11  And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12  And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:13  And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14  And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years: 1:15  And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.

1:16  And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

1:17  And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth, 1:18  And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19  And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

1:20  And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.

1:21  And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:22  And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23  And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

1:24  And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so.

1:25  And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26  And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27  So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.

1:28  And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

1:29  And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

1:30  And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31  And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

2:1  Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.

2:2  And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

2:3  And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.

6:9  These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God.

6:10  And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

6:11  The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.

6:12  And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

6:13  And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.

6:14  Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

6:15  And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.

6:16  A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.

6:17  And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.

6:18  But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee.

6:19  And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be male and female.

6:20  Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

6:21  And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

6:22  Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.

7:8  Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls, and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, 7:9  There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah.

7:11  In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

7:13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark;

7:14  They, and every beast after his kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind, every bird of every sort.

7:15  And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh, wherein is the breath of life.

7:16 And they that went in, went in male and

7:21  And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, and every man: 7:24  And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days.

8:1 And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged;

8:2 The fountains also of the

8:3 the earth continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.

8:4  And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.

8:5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.

8:7  And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.

8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year,

8:14  And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dried.

8:15  And God spake unto Noah, saying, 8:16  Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.

8:17  Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

8:18  And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him: 8:19  Every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the ark.

9:1  And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

9:2  And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered.

9:3  Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb have I given you all things.

9:4  But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.

9:5  And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man.

9:6  Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man.

9:7  And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.

9:8  And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 9:9  And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you; 9:10  And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.

9:11  And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

9:12  And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations: 9:13  I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.

9:14  And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: 9:15  And I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.

9:16  And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:17  And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

10:1 sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.

10:2  The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.

10:3  And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

10:4  And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.

10:5  By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands; every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.

10:6  And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.

10:7 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

10:20  These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.

10:22  The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.

10:23  And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.

10:31  These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations.

10:32  These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.

11:27 the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.

11:28  And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.

11:29  And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.

11:30  But Sarai was barren; she had no child.

11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.

12:4 him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.

12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.

13:6  And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together.

13:11 Lot journeyed east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

13:12 Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and

16:3  And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife.

16:15  And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son's name, which Hagar bare, Ishmael.

16:16  And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram.

17:1  And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me, and be thou perfect.

17:2  And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly.

17:3  And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying, 17:4  As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations.

17:5  Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.

17:6  And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.

17:7  And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.

17:8  And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.

17:9  And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore, thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.

17:10  This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.

17:11  And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.

17:12  And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.

17:13  He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.

17:14  And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath broken my covenant.

17:15  And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.

17:16  And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people shall be of her.

17:17  Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear? 17:18  And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee! 17:19  And God said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.

17:20  And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.

17:21  But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.

17:22  And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.

17:23  And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.

17:24  And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:25  And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:26  In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.

17:27  And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.

19:29  And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.

21:1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto Sarah as he had spoken.

21:2 a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.

21:3  And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

21:4  And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as God had commanded him.

21:5 And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him.

23:1  And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these were the years of the life of Sarah.

23:2  And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.

23:3  And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying, 23:4  I am a stranger and a sojourner with you: give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.

23:5  And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:6  Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.

23:7  And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth.

23:8  And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar, 23:9  That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you.

23:10  And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, 23:11  Nay, my lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee: bury thy dead.

23:12  And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.

23:13  And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead there.

23:14  And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:15  My lord, hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

23:16  And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.

23:17  And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were made sure 23:18  Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.

23:19  And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan.

23:20  And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.

25:7  And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.

25:8 died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.

25:9  And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre; 25:10  The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.

25:11 And it came to pass after the death of

25:13  And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 25:14  And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 25:15  Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 25:16  These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations.

25:17  And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people.

25:18  And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his brethren.

25:20  And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister to Laban the Syrian.

26:34  And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite: 26:35  Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.

27:46  And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me? 28:1  And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.

28:2  Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughers of Laban thy mother's brother.

28:3  And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people; 28:4  And give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham.

28:5  And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.

28:6  When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughers of Canaan; 28:7  And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padanaram; 28:8  And Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father; 28:9  Then went Esau unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife.

31:18  And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.

35:9  And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram, and blessed him.

35:10  And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel.

35:11  And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins; 35:12  And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land.

35:13  And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.

35:14  And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon.

35:15  And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel.

35:23  The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun: 35:24  The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: 35:25  And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: 35:26  And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid: Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.

35:27  And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.

35:28  And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.

35:29  And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.

36:2  Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite; 36:3  And Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebajoth.

36:4  And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 36:5  And Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.

36:6  And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into the country from the face of his brother Jacob.

36:7  For their riches were more than that they might dwell together; and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because of their cattle.

36:8  Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.

36:9  And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in mount Seir: 36:10  These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau.

36:11  And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.

36:12  And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife.

36:13  And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

36:14  And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.

36:15  These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz, 36:16  Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.

36:17  And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

36:18  And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush, duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.

36:19  These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes.

36:20  These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 36:21  And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.

36:22  And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna.

36:23  And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.

36:24  And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father.

36:25  And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah.

36:26  And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.

36:27  The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.

36:28  The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.

36:29  These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 36:30  Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir.

37:1  And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan.

41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood

46:6  And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him: 46:7  His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt.

46:8  And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.

46:9  And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.

46:10  And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.

46:11  And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

46:12  And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.

46:13  And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.

46:14  And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.

46:15  These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty and three.

46:16  And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.

46:17  And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.

46:18  These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.

46:19  The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.

46:20  And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.

46:21  And the sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.

46:22  These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the souls were fourteen.

46:23  And the sons of Dan; Hushim.

46:24  And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.

46:25  These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.

46:26  All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescore and six; 46:27  And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt, were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into Egypt, were threescore and ten.

47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied exceedingly.

47:28  And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.

48:3  And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 48:4  And said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession.

48:5  And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.

48:6  And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine, and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance.

49:29  And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, 49:30  In the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a buryingplace.

49:31  There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.

49:32  The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was from the children of Heth.

49:33  And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.

50:12  And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 50:13  For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.

