E Genesis

20:1  And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.

20:2  And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.

20:3  But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken; for she is a man's wife.

20:4  But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou slay also a righteous nation? 20:5  Said he not unto me, She is my sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.

20:6  And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

20:7  Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.

20:8  Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid.

20:9  Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done.

20:10  And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing? 20:11  And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife's sake.

20:12  And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.

20:13  And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother.

20:14  And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.

20:15  And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee.

20:16  And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was reproved.

20:17  So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.

20:18  For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.

21:6  And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear will laugh with me.

21:8  And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.

21:9  And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born unto Abraham, mocking.

21:10  Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac.

21:11  And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of his son.

21:12  And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.

21:13  And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation, because he is thy seed.

21:14  And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.

21:15  And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.

21:16  And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the child. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.

21:17  And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.

21:18  Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will make him a great nation.

21:19  And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.

21:20  And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer.

21:21  And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.

21:22  And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest: 21:23  Now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.

21:24  And Abraham said, I will swear.

21:25  And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.

21:26  And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing; neither didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.

21:27  And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and both of them made a covenant.

21:28  And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.

21:29  And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set by themselves? 21:30  And he said, For these seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto me, that I have digged this well.

21:31  Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they sware both of them.

21:32  Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up, and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.

21:33  And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.

21:34  And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.

22:1  And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.

22:2  And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.

22:3  And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place of which God had told him.

22:4  Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.

22:5  And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass; and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.

22:6  And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they went both of them together.

22:7  And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? 22:8  And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they went both of them together.

22:9  And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.

22:10  And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.

22:16 I sworn, saith the LORD, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son:

22:17  That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies; 22:18  And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.

22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.

25:1  Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.

25:2  And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.

25:3  And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.

25:4  And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.

28:11 place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep.

28:12 And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it.

28:17  And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

28:18  And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.

28:20  And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, 28:21  So that I come again to my father's house in peace; then shall the LORD be my God: 28:22  And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.

30:1 bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die.

30:2  And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb? 30:3 And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.

30:4 handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her.

30:5  And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.

30:6  And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan.

30:7  And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son.

30:8  And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali.

30:9  When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.

30:10  And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son.

30:11  And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.

30:12  And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son.

30:13  And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed: and she called his name Asher.

30:14  And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes.

30:15  And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's mandrakes.

30:16  And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that night.

30:17  And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son.

30:18  And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar.

30:19  And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.

30:20  And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she called his name Zebulun.

30:21  And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.

30:22  And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb.

30:23  And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away my reproach: 30:24 And she called his

31:1  And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's hath he gotten all this glory.

31:2  And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before.

31:4  And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock, 31:5  And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me.

31:6  And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.

31:7  And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me.

31:8  If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.

31:9  Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given them to me.

31:10  And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.

31:11  And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob: And I said, Here am I.

31:12  And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.

31:13  I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.

31:14  And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house? 31:15  Are we not counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured also our money.

31:16  For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is ours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do.

31:19  And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's.

31:20  And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told him not that he fled.

31:21  So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.

31:22  And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.

31:23  And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven days' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.

31:24  And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:25  Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.

31:26  And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives taken with the sword? 31:27  Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp? 31:28  And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou hast now done foolishly in so doing.

31:29  It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:30  And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore longedst after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my gods? 31:31  And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me.

31:32  With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.

31:33  And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not. Then went he out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent.

31:34  Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but found them not.

31:35  And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he searched but found not the images.

31:36  And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast so hotly pursued after me? 31:37  Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it here before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both.

31:38  This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten.

31:39  That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by day, or stolen by night.

31:40  Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.

31:41  Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle: and thou hast changed my wages ten times.

31:42  Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked thee yesternight.

31:43  And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born? 31:44  Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and let it be for a witness between me and thee.

31:45  And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.

31:46  And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.

31:47  And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.

31:48  And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this day.

Therefore was the name of it called Galeed; 31:50  If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witness betwixt me and thee.

31:51  And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee: 31:52  This heap be witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this pillar unto me, for harm.

31:53  The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac.

31:54  Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night in the mount.

32:1  And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.

32:2  And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.

32:3  And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom.

32:14  Two hundred she goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, 32:15  Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she asses, and ten foals.

32:16  And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove.

32:17  And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee? 32:18  Then thou shalt say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.

32:19  And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him.

32:20  And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.

32:21  So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that night in the company.

32:22  And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.

32:23  And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had.

32:24  And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day.

32:25  And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.

32:26  And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me.

32:27  And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.

32:28  And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.

32:29  And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there.

32:30  And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.

32:31  And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh.

32:32  Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.

33:1  And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.

33:2  And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.

33:3  And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.

33:4  And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept.

33:5  And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God hath graciously given thy servant.

33:6  Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves.

33:7  And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.

33:8  And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.

33:9  And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself.

33:10  And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me.

33:11  Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him, and he took it.

33:12  And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee.

33:13  And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.

33:14  Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.

33:15  And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the sight of my lord.

33:16  So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.

33:17  And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.

33:18 And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city.

33:19  And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred pieces of money.

33:20  And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.

35:1  And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.

35:2  Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments: 35:3  And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.

35:4  And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.

35:5  And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob.

35:6  So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.

35:7  And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother.

35:8  But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.

35:16  And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.

35:17  And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.

35:18  And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin.

35:19  And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem.

35:20  And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day.

37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he

37:4  And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.

37:12  And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.

37:13  And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I.

37:14  And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.

37:15  And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou? 37:16  And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks.

37:17  And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan.

37:18  And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him.

37:21  And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands; and said, Let us not kill him.

37:22  And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.

37:24  And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the pit was empty, there was no water in it.

37:25 And they sat

37:28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and

37:29  And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes.

37:30  And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not; and I, whither shall I go? 37:36  And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.

40:1  And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.

40:2  And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.

40:3  And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.

40:4  And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them: and they continued a season in ward.

40:5  And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison.

40:6  And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon them, and, behold, they were sad.

40:7  And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day? 40:8  And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations belong to God? tell me them, I pray you.

40:9  And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 40:10  And in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 40:11  And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.

40:12  And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days: 40:13  Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler.

40:14  But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house: 40:15  For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon.

40:16  When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three white baskets on my head: 40:17  And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head.

40:18  And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three days: 40:19  Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.

40:20  And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.

40:21  And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand: 40:22  But he hanged the chief baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.

40:23  Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.

41:1  And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.

41:2  And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.

41:3  And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon the brink of the river.

41:4  And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.

41:5  And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.

41:6  And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them.

41:7  And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.

41:8  And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.

41:9  Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day: 41:10  Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker: 41:11  And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream.

41:12  And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.

41:13  And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.

41:14  Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.

41:15  And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it.

41:16  And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace.

41:17  And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river: 41:18  And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a meadow: 41:19  And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness: 41:20  And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine: 41:21  And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.

41:22  And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good: 41:23  And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: 41:24  And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.

41:25  And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do.

41:26  The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are seven years: the dream is one.

41:27  And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine.

41:28  This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.

41:29  Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt: 41:30  And there shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land; 41:31  And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall be very grievous.

41:32  And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass.

41:33  Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt.

41:34  Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years.

41:35  And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities.

41:36  And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land perish not through the famine.

41:37  And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants.

41:38  And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? 41:39  And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art: 41:40  Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou.

41:41  And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt.

41:42  And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck; 41:43  And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt.

41:44  And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.

41:45  And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt.

41:46 before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt.

41:47  And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls.

41:48  And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.

41:49  And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until he left numbering; for it was without number.

41:50  And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.

41:51  And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God, said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house.

41:52  And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.

41:53  And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of Egypt, were ended.

41:54  And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.

41:55  And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph; what he saith to you, do.

41:56  And the famine was over all the face of the earth: and Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.

41:57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn; because that the famine was so sore in all lands.

42:5  And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan.

42:6  And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.

42:7  And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.

42:21  And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.

42:22  And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also his blood is required.

42:23  And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto them by an interpreter.

42:24  And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before their eyes.

42:25  Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way: and thus did he unto them.

42:35  And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.

42:36  And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away: all these things are against me.

42:37  And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again.

43:14  And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.

43:18  And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.

43:19  And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the door of the house, 43:20  And said, O sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food: 43:21  And it came to pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, every man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight: and we have brought it again in our hand.

43:22  And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food: we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.

43:23  And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money. And he brought Simeon out unto them.

45:3  And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence.

46:1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.

46:2  And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.

46:3  And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: 46:4  I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.

46:5 And Jacob rose up

47:7  And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.

47:8  And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? 47:9  And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.

47:10  And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.

48:1  And it came to pass after these things, that one told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.

48:2  And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.

48:8  And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are these? 48:9  And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them.

48:10  Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see.

And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced them.

48:11  And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face: and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.

48:12  And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.

48:13  And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him.

48:14  And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the firstborn.

48:15  And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto this day, 48:16  The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.

48:17  And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand, to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head.

48:18  And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this is the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.

48:19  And his father refused, and said, I know it, my son, I know it: he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations.

48:20  And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set Ephraim before Manasseh.

48:21  And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.

48:22  Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.

50:23  And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph's knees.

50:24  And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.

50:25  And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.

50:26  So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.