J Genesis

 the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens,

  And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground.

  But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.

  And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.

  And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.

  And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

  And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.

  The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;   And the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.

  And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.

  And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.

  And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.

  And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:   But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

  And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

  And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof.

  And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him.

  And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof;   And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.

  And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.

  Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.

  Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?   And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:   But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.

  And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:   For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

  And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat.

  And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.

  And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.

  And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou?   And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

  And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?   And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

  And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

  And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life:   And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.

  Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

  And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life;   Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;   In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

  And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother of all living.

  Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins, and clothed them.

  And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever:   Therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.

  So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.

  And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.

  And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.

  And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

  And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:   But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

  And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?   If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.

  And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.

  And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?   And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground.

  And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand;   When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

  And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear.

  Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall slay me.

  And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.

  And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.

  And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.

  And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.

  And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.

  And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle.

  And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ.

  And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.

  And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.

  If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.

  And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.

  And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.

  And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed.

  And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them,   That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose.

  And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.

  There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown.

  And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.

  And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.

  And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

  But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

  And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

  Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female.

  Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.

  For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.

  And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.

  And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.

  And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.

  And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

 female of all flesh, as God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.

  And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.

  And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.

  And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.

 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains were covered.

  All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.

  And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.

 deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained;

 And the waters returned from off

  And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made:   Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground;   But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

  And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark;   And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth.

  And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove; which returned not again unto him any more.

 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

  And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.

  And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

  While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

  And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.

  These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth overspread.

  And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:   And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent.

  And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.

  And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness.

  And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him.

  And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.

  And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

  God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

  And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.

  He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.

  And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.

  Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah,   And Resen between Nineveh and Calah: the same is a great city.

  And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,   And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and Caphtorim.

  And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth,   And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite,   And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,   And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.

  And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.

  Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.

  And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.

  And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.

  And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,   And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,   And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,   And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan.

  And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east.

  And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.

  And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.

  And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter.

  And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

  And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded.

  And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.

  Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech.

  So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city.

  Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

 Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee:

  And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:   And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.

 So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto

  And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.

  And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who appeared unto him.

  And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD.

  And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.

  And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.

  And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon:   Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.

  Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.

  And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.

  The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.

  And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses, and camels.

  And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram's wife.

  And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?   Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.

  And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him away, and his wife, and all that he had.

  And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the south.

  And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.

  And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Hai;   Unto the place of the altar, which he had make there at the first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.

  And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and tents.

 And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelled then in the land.

  And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be brethren.

  Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee, from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right; or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.

  And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest unto Zoar.

 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and

 Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.

  But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD exceedingly.

  And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward:   For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever.

  And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered.

  Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.

 Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.

  And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations;   That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.

  All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is the salt sea.

  Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled.

  And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzims in Ham, and the Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim,   And the Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.

  And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that dwelt in Hazezontamar.

  And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddim;   With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with five.

  And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled to the mountain.

  And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way.

  And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.

  And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew; for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.

  And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.

  And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus.

  And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.

  And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, at the valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.

  And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and he was the priest of the most high God.

  And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high God, possessor of heaven and earth:   And blessed be the most high God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him tithes of all.

  And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself.

  And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand unto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth,   That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich:   Save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.

  After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward.

  And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?   And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo, one born in my house is mine heir.

  And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir.

  And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

  And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for righteousness.

  And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

  And he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it?   And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtledove, and a young pigeon.

  And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.

  And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them away.

  And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.

  And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not their's, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years;   And also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.

  And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age.

  But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.

  And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces.

  In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates:   The Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites,   And the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaims,   And the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.

  Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: and she had an handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.

  And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrained me from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.

  And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.

  And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.

  But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thine hand; do to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she fled from her face.

  And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.

  And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence camest thou? and whither wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

  And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hands.

  And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

  And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art with child and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael; because the LORD hath heard thy affliction.

  And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren.

  And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou God seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that seeth me?   Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.

  And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day;   And he lift up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground,   And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant:   Let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree:   And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.

  And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes upon the hearth.

  And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good, and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.

  And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.

  And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent.

  And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.

  Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.

  Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?   And the LORD said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old?   Is any thing too hard for the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.

  Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.

  And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

  And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do;   Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?   For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him.

  And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous;   I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

  And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.

  And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked?   Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein?   That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?   And the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.

  And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes:   Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it.

  And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's sake.

  And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there.

  And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake.

  And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake.

  And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.

  And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground;   And he said, Behold now, my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on your ways. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all night.

  And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him, and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake unleavened bread, and they did eat.

  But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people from every quarter:   And they called unto Lot, and said unto him, Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bring them out unto us, that we may know them.

  And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after him,   And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.

  Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof.

  And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and came near to break the door.

  But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house to them, and shut to the door.

  And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to find the door.

  And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son in law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of this place:   For we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the LORD; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.

  And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law.

  And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here; lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.

  And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him without the city.

  And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.

  And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my LORD:   Behold now, thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die:   Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one: Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall live.

  And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou hast spoken.

  Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.

  The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.

  Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven;   And he overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.

  But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.

  And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the LORD:   And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.

  And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters.

  And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all the earth:   Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

  And they made their father drink wine that night: and the firstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose.

  And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

  And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the younger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose.

  Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.

  And the first born bare a son, and called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day.

  And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name Benammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this day.

 And the LORD visited Sarah as

 For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham

  And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should have given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.

  And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy brother Nahor;   Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,   And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.

  And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother.

  And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.

  And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things.

  And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh:   And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell:   But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac.

  And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest?   And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.

  The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence.

  And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.

  And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning that matter.

  And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.

  And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out to draw water.

  And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.

  Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water:   And let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed kindness unto my master.

  And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.

  And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her pitcher, and came up.

  And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee, drink a little water of thy pitcher.

  And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.

  And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.

  And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.

  And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.

  And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold;   And said, Whose daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father's house for us to lodge in?   And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.

  She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in.

  And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.

  And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being in the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren.

  And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house these things.

  And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran out unto the man, unto the well.

  And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and, behold, he stood by the camels at the well.

  And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.

  And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet, and the men's feet that were with him.

  And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.

  And he said, I am Abraham's servant.

  And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold, and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.

  And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she was old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.

  And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:   But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son.

  And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not follow me.

  And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my kindred, and of my father's house:   Then shalt thou be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath.

  And I came this day unto the well, and said, O LORD God of my master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go:   Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink;   And she say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master's son.

  And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray thee.

  And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank, and she made the camels drink also.

  And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she said, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him: and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands.

  And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham, which had led me in the right way to take my master's brother's daughter unto his son.

  And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.

  Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.

  Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be thy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath spoken.

  And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard their words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth.

  And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things.

  And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him, and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away unto my master.

  And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.

  And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.

  And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at her mouth.

  And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go.

  And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his men.

  And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them.

  And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way.

  And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt in the south country.

  And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.

  And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel.

  For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master: therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.

  And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.

  And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.

 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and

 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.

  And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.

  And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD.

  And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger.

  And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.

  And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.

  And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them.

  And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.

  And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob.

  And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was faint:   And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.

  And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.

  And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit shall this birthright do to me?   And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.

  Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his birthright.

  And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar.

  And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of:   Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father;   And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed;   Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.

  And Isaac dwelt in Gerar:   And the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.

  And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.

  And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.

  And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us.

  And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.

  Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.

  And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great:   For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him.

  For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth.

  And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we.

  And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.

  And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.

  And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.

  And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him.

  And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah.

  And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.

  And he went up from thence to Beersheba.

  And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake.

  And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a well.

  Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.

  And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you?   And they said, We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee;   That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD.

  And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.

  And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.

  And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water.

  And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is Beersheba unto this day.

  And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.

  And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my death:   Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison;   And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.

  And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.

  And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying,   Bring me venison, and make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD before my death.

  Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee.

  Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as he loveth:   And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, and that he may bless thee before his death.

  And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man:   My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing.

  And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

  And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.

  And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:   And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck:   And she gave the savoury meat and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.

  And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I; who art thou, my son?   And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.

  And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it to me.

  And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.

  And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.

  And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him.

  And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.

  And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him, and he did eat: and he brought him wine and he drank.

  And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me, my son.

  And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed:   Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine:   Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

  And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.

  And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.

  And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau.

  And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is he that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall be blessed.

  And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father.

  And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away thy blessing.

  And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and, behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?   And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustained him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son?   And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

  And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above;   And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.

  And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.

  And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to kill thee.

  Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran;   And tarry with him a few days, until thy brother's fury turn away;   Until thy brother's anger turn away from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of you both in one day?  And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.

 And he lighted upon a certain

  And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORD God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed;   And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.

  And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of.

  And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place; and I knew it not.

  And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of that city was called Luz at the first.

  Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the people of the east.

  And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well's mouth.

  And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in his place.

  And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they said, Of Haran are we.

  And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him.

  And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well: and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.

  And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and feed them.

  And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we water the sheep.

  And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep; for she kept them.

  And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.

  And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.

  And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father.

  And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.

  And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And he abode with him the space of a month.

  And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy wages be?   And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.

  Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well favoured.

  And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter.

  And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that I should give her to another man: abide with me.

  And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her.

  And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.

  And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.

  And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.

  And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an handmaid.

  And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah: and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me?   And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn.

  Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.

  And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also.

  And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be her maid.

  And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.

  And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb: but Rachel was barren.

  And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction; now therefore my husband will love me.

  And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the LORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also: and she called his name Simeon.

  And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons: therefore was his name called Levi.

  And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left bearing.

 And when Rachel saw that she

 And she gave him Bilhah her

 And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD shall add to me another son.

  And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country.

  Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.

  And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath blessed me for thy sake.

  And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.

  And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me.

  For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?   And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock.

  I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such shall be my hire.

  So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me.

  And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word.

  And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.

  And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.

  And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chesnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods.

  And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that they should conceive when they came to drink.

  And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.

  And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban's cattle.

  And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.

  But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.

  And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.

  And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.

  Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;   And Mizpah; for he said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from another.

  And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now:   And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight.

  And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him.

  Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands;   And said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.

  And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee:   I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two bands.

  Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with the children.

  And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.

  And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother;   And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.

  And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.

  And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.

  And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife.

  And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come.

  And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him.

  And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter: which thing ought not to be done.

  And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.

  And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you.

  And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.

  And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.

  Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.

  And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:   And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us:   But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be, that every male of you be circumcised;   Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people.

  But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone.

  And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son.

  And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the house of his father.

  And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying,   These men are peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters.

  Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us, to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised.

  Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of their's be our's? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell with us.

  And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city.

  And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.

  And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out.

  The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister.

  They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field,   And all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.

  And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house.

  And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?   And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar.

  And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve:   And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel.

  And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his city was Dinhabah.

  And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.

  And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his stead.

  And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith.

  And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

  And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead.

  And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.

  And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.

  And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau, according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth,   Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,   Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,   Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of the Edomites.

 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.

 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.

  And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they hated him yet the more.

  And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:   For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.

  And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words.

  And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.

  And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?   And his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying.

  And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.

  Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams.

  And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him;  down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt.

 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.

  And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood;   And they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son's coat or no.

  And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.

  And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days.

  And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.

  And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.

  And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name was Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.

  And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.

  And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name Onan.

  And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.

  And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.

  And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD slew him.

  And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, and marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.

  And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it on the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.

  And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he slew him also.

  Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house.

  And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died; and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.

  And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep.

  And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered her with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given unto him to wife.

  When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because she had covered her face.

  And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee, let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughter in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come in unto me?   And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it?   And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave it her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.

  And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood.

  And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive his pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not.

  Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the harlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no harlot in this place.

  And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also the men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.

  And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed: behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.

  And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her forth, and let her be burnt.

  When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law, saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said, Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff.

  And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more.

  And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins were in her womb.

  And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first.

  And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.

  And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.

  And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

  And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

  And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

  And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand.

  And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

  And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured.

  And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.

  But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand;   There is none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?   And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

  And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the house to do his business; and there was none of the men of the house there within.

  And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.

  And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth,   That she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice:   And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out.

  And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.

  And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me:   And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out.

  And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.

  And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in the prison.

  But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.

  And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it.

  The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the LORD made it to prosper.

  Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another?   And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.

  And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.

  But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.

  And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.

  And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.

  And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come.

  We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy servants are no spies.

  And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.

  And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is not.

  And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you, saying, Ye are spies:   Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither.

  Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.

  And he put them all together into ward three days.

  And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; for I fear God:   If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses:   But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.

  And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.

  And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack's mouth.

  And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, it is even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us?   And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them; saying,   The man, who is the lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country.

  And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies:   We be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.

  And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone:   And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffick in the land.

  And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

  And the famine was sore in the land.

  And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food.

  And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you.

  If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food:   But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down: for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you.

  And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother?   And they said, The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down?   And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little ones.

  I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever:   For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time.

  And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds:   And take double money in your hand; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight:   Take also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man:   And the men took that present, and they took double money in their hand and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph.

  And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for these men shall dine with me at noon.

  And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into Joseph's house.

  And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.

  And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for they heard that they should eat bread there.

  And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth.

  And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your father well, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive?   And they answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance.

  And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.

  And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother: and he sought where to weep; and he entered into his chamber, and wept there.

  And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, and said, Set on bread.

  And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians.

  And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men marvelled one at another.

  And he took and sent messes unto them from before him: but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of their's. And they drank, and were merry with him.

  And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth.

  And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.

  As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses.

  And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good?   Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.

  And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.

  And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing:   Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold?   With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen.

  And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.

  Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack.

  And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.

  Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city.

  And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.

  And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?   And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we are my lord's servants, both we, and he also with whom the cup is found.

  And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace unto your father.

  Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.

  My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother?   And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.

  And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him.

  And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die.

  And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.

  And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.

  And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.

  And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, except our youngest brother be with us.

  And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons:   And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since:   And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

  Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life;   It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.

  For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever.

  Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.

  For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.

  Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren.

  And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard.

  And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.

  Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.

  For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest.

  And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.

  So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt.

  Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me, tarry not:   And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast:   And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine; lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.

  And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.

  And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.

  And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck.

  Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and after that his brethren talked with him.

  And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.

  And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye; lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan;   And take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land.

  Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.

  Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of Egypt is your's.

  And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way.

  To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment.

  And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way.

  So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.

  And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father,   And told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not.

  And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived:   And Israel said, It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before I die.

 And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.

  And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.

  And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.

  And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, because thou art yet alive.

  And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father's house, I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my father's house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;   And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have.

  And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What is your occupation?   That ye shall say, Thy servants' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now, both we, and also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.

  Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land of Goshen.

  And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented them unto Pharaoh.

  And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and also our fathers.

  They said morever unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.

  And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee:   The land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest any men of activity among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.

 And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.

  And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his father's household, with bread, according to their families.

  And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine.

  And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.

  And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.

  And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail.

  And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year.

  When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:   Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that the land be not desolate.

  And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them: so the land became Pharaoh's.

  And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof.

  Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.

  Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land.

  And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones.

  And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants.

  And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth part, except the land of the priests only, which became not Pharaoh's.

 And Israel dwelt in the

  And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt:   But I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.

  And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head.

  And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days.

  Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father.

  Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power:   Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to thy father's bed; then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch.

  Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their habitations.

  O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly, mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man, and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.

  Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.

  Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow down before thee.

  Judah is a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up: he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him up?   The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be.

  Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass's colt unto the choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes:   His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth white with milk.

  Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.

  Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens:   And he saw that rest was good, and the land that it was pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto tribute.

  Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.

  Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.

  I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.

  Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the last.

  Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties.

  Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.

  Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall:   The archers have sorely grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him:   But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel:)   Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb:   The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.

  Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf: in the morning he shall devour the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.

  And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him.

  And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.

  And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days.

  And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,   My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.

  And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear.

  And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,   And all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.

  And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company.

  And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days.

  And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, which is beyond Jordan.

  And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.

  And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him.

  And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying,   So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin; for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him.

  And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we be thy servants.

  And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of God?   But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive.

  Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little ones.

And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.

  And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.

