R Genesis

 These are the generations of

  This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;   Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.

  And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth:   And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters:   And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.

  And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos:   And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died.

  And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan:   And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died.

  And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel:   And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died.

  And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared:   And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.

  And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch:   And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he died.

  And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah:   And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years:   And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.

  And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech.

  And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.

  And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son:   And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters:   And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.

  And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

  And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.

  And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.

  And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.

 Now these are the generations of the

 generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood:

  And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.

  And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah:   And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.

  And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber:   And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.

  And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg:   And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters.

  And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu:   And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters.

  And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug:   And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters.

  And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor:   And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.

  And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah:   And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters.

 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.

 Now these are

  And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran.

 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.

  And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me.

  And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son.

  And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.

  And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time,  And said, By myself have

  And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.

  But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country.

  Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham:   And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac:  And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is

  Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.

 These are the

  And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same is Bethlehem.

  All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to his blessing he blessed them.

