R Numbers

3:1  These also are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that the LORD spake with Moses in mount Sinai.

9:15  And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, namely, the tent of the testimony: and at even there was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until the morning.

9:16  So it was alway: the cloud covered it by day, and the appearance of fire by night.

9:17  And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents.

9:18  At the commandment of the LORD the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of the LORD they pitched: as long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they rested in their tents.

9:19  And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of the LORD, and journeyed not.

9:20  And so it was, when the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle; according to the commandment of the LORD they abode in their tents, and according to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed.

9:21  And so it was, when the cloud abode from even unto the morning, and that the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they journeyed: whether it was by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, they journeyed.

9:22  Or whether it were two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the children of Israel abode in their tents, and journeyed not: but when it was taken up, they journeyed.

9:23  At the commandment of the LORD they rested in the tents, and at the commandment of the LORD they journeyed: they kept the charge of the LORD, at the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10:13  And they first took their journey according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10:28  Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they set forward.

15:1  And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 15:2  Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you, 15:3  And will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice in performing a vow, or in a freewill offering, or in your solemn feasts, to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, of the herd or of the flock: 15:4  Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LORD bring a meat offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of oil.

15:5  And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shalt thou prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb.

15:6  Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenth deals of flour mingled with the third part of an hin of oil.

15:7  And for a drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of an hin of wine, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:8  And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD: 15:9  Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat offering of three tenth deals of flour mingled with half an hin of oil.

15:10  And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:11  Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a lamb, or a kid.

15:12  According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number.

15:13  All that are born of the country shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:14  And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you in your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.

15:15  One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and also for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever in your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD.

15:16  One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you.

15:17  And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 15:18  Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land whither I bring you, 15:19  Then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.

15:20  Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heave offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shall ye heave it.

15:21  Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heave offering in your generations.

15:22  And if ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments, which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses, 15:23  Even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD commanded Moses, and henceforward among your generations; 15:24  Then it shall be, if ought be committed by ignorance without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour unto the LORD, with his meat offering, and his drink offering, according to the manner, and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.

15:25  And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their ignorance: 15:26  And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; seeing all the people were in ignorance.

15:27  And if any soul sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a she goat of the first year for a sin offering.

15:28  And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinneth ignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the LORD, to make an atonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him.

15:29  Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance, both for him that is born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them.

15:30  But the soul that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be born in the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.

15:31  Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.

16:27 So they gat up from the

20:1 Then came the children of

20:22  And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mount Hor.

21:4 And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of

21:10  And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in Oboth.

21:11  And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrising.

21:12  From thence they removed, and pitched in the valley of Zared.

21:13  From thence they removed, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which is in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of the Amorites: for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.

21:14  Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD, What he did in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon, 21:15  And at the stream of the brooks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar, and lieth upon the border of Moab.

21:16  And from thence they went to Beer: that is the well whereof the LORD spake unto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will give them water.

21:17  Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it: 21:18  The princes digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it, by the direction of the lawgiver, with their staves. And from the wilderness they went to Mattanah: 21:19  And from Mattanah to Nahaliel: and from Nahaliel to Bamoth: 21:20  And from Bamoth in the valley, that is in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh toward Jeshimon.

22:1  And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho.

26:9  And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This is that Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation, who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they strove against the LORD: 26:10  And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died, what time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men: and they became a sign.

26:11  Notwithstanding the children of Korah died not.

28:1  And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, 28:2  Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.

28:3  And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt offering.

28:4  The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even; 28:5  And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.

28:6  It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

28:7  And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the LORD for a drink offering.

28:8  And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

28:9  And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof: 28:10  This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

28:11  And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot; 28:12  And three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram; 28:13  And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering unto one lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

28:14  And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third part of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth part of an hin unto a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.

28:15  And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

28:16  And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD.

28:17  And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.

28:18  In the first day shall be an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work therein: 28:19  But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish: 28:20  And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram; 28:21  A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 28:22  And one goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.

28:23  Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.

28:24  After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

28:25  And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.

28:26  Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the LORD, after your weeks be out, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: 28:27  But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year; 28:28  And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two tenth deals unto one ram, 28:29  A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs; 28:30  And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.

28:31  Ye shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.

29:1  And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing the trumpets unto you.

29:2  And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year without blemish: 29:3  And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram, 29:4  And one tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 29:5  And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you: 29:6  Beside the burnt offering of the month, and his meat offering, and the daily burnt offering, and his meat offering, and their drink offerings, according unto their manner, for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

29:7  And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month an holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do any work therein: 29:8  But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD for a sweet savour; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year; they shall be unto you without blemish: 29:9  And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to a bullock, and two tenth deals to one ram, 29:10  A several tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs: 29:11  One kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering of it, and their drink offerings.

29:12  And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work, and ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days: 29:13  And ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year; they shall be without blemish: 29:14  And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto every bullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth deals to each ram of the two rams, 29:15  And a several tenth deal to each lamb of the fourteen lambs: 29:16  And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:17  And on the second day ye shall offer twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot: 29:18  And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:19  And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering thereof, and their drink offerings.

29:20  And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish; 29:21  And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:22  And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:23  And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish: 29:24  Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:25  And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:26  And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without spot: 29:27  And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:28  And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:29  And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish: 29:30  And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:31  And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:32  And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish: 29:33  And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:34  And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:35  On the eighth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work therein: 29:36  But ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: one bullock, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish: 29:37  Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner: 29:38  And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:39  These things ye shall do unto the LORD in your set feasts, beside your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meat offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.

33:1  These are the journeys of the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.

33:2  And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according to their goings out.

33:3  And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after the passover the children of Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.

33:4  For the Egyptians buried all their firstborn, which the LORD had smitten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.

33:5  And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth.

33:6  And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness.

33:7  And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth, which is before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.

33:8  And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.

33:9  And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim were twelve fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and they pitched there.

33:10  And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.

33:11  And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.

33:12  And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah.

33:13  And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.

33:14  And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.

33:15  And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wilderness of Sinai.

33:16  And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at Kibrothhattaavah.

33:17  And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth.

33:18  And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.

33:19  And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.

33:20  And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.

33:21  And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah.

33:22  And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.

33:23  And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.

33:24  And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.

33:25  And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.

33:26  And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.

33:27  And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah.

33:28  And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.

33:29  And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.

33:30  And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.

33:31  And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan.

33:32  And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad.

33:33  And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah.

33:34  And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.

33:35  And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.

33:36  And they removed from Eziongaber, and pitched in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.

33:37  And they removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.

33:38  And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth month.

33:39  And Aaron was an hundred and twenty and three years old when he died in mount Hor.

33:40  And king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.

33:41  And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.

33:42  And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.

33:43  And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.

33:44  And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in the border of Moab.

33:45  And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad.

33:46  And they removed from Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim.

33:47  And they removed from Almondiblathaim, and pitched in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.

33:48  And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.

33:49  And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimoth even unto Abelshittim in the plains of Moab.

